.. index::
   single: 1.1.0; release notes
   single: release notes; 1.1.0

Blackchirp 1.1.0
================

Blackchirp 1.1.0 is the final release of the v1.x line. It introduces
the overlay subsystem, the standalone ``blackchirp-viewer`` offline
visualization application, a theme-aware SVG icon set, a precision-
aware ``ScientificSpinBox`` widget, and expanded curve-appearance
controls in the FTMW plot. Several Sirah Cobra and Harvey Mudd LIF
hardware additions ship in this release alongside reliability fixes
across the overlay manager, sequence-mode aborts, the LIF tab, and
the MKS 946 pressure controller.

Highlights
----------

- Added the Overlays subsystem: catalog (SPCAT/XIAM), generic XY
  (CSV/text), and other-experiment overlays managed through a
  unified dialog and a sortable, drag-and-drop overlay table that
  persists per-experiment under the experiment directory. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/overlays`.
- Added ``blackchirp-viewer``, a standalone read-only application
  for inspecting completed experiments without bringing up
  hardware or acquisition. See :doc:`/user_guide/viewer`.
- Migrated the icon set to scalable SVG using Heroicons with
  theme-aware colors that follow the active palette. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/ui_overview`.
- Added a precision-aware ``ScientificSpinBox`` with adaptive
  stepping and unit-suffix support, and overhauled the plot
  context menu with a curve-appearance submenu, alpha-channel
  color selection, and copy/paste of curve settings. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/plot_controls`.
- Extended LIF hardware support, including Sirah Cobra
  compensator calibration updates and the additions required for
  the Harvey Mudd LIF instrument. See :doc:`/user_guide/lif/experiment_setup`.

Build and distribution
----------------------

- Switched to the MIT license.
- Migrated the source tree to C++20 and resolved deprecated
  Qt6 lambda captures.
- Forced UTF-8 file encoding for sources and on-disk data
  files. See :doc:`/user_guide/installation`.

Hardware drivers
----------------

The :doc:`LIF experiment setup </user_guide/lif/experiment_setup>` and
:doc:`LIF Configuration dialog </user_guide/lif/configuration>` pages
cover the hardware additions in this section.

- Added Sirah Cobra control updates and external-crystal-stage
  support tailored to the Harvey Mudd LIF instrument.
- Added support for new Harvey Mudd LIF hardware types.
- Cleaned up the ``CommunicationProtocol`` inheritance graph
  for hardware drivers.

Acquisition and data flow
-------------------------

- Added differential-backup viewing during a running experiment,
  showing the change between the current state and the most
  recent backup. See :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Multi-step acquisitions (LO scan, DR scan, LIF delay scan) now
  gate the digitizer between steps and discard potentially-stale
  waveforms after each transition. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/experiment/sequence_mode`.
- Pulse generators are now paused while the user edits experiment
  settings, preventing fired pulses during configuration. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/experiment_setup`.
- Experiments can be loaded from a path without specifying their
  number. See :doc:`/user_guide/data_storage`.
- Backups are viewable while an experiment is still running. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.

Overlays
--------

The new overlay subsystem is documented end-to-end in
:doc:`/user_guide/overlays`; the bullets below summarize the
visible additions.

- Added the unified Overlay Dialog and Overlay Manager widget
  with type-specific configuration for ``BCExpOverlay``,
  ``CatalogOverlay``, and ``GenericXY`` overlays.
- Catalog overlays support SPCAT and XIAM input with optional
  Gaussian convolution, intelligent state tracking, and
  cancellable chunked computation.
- Generic XY overlays auto-detect column layout from CSV and
  whitespace-separated text input.
- Overlay table supports drag-and-drop reordering, sortable
  columns, per-row enable/disable, and an editable comment
  column.
- Overlay rename supports a sanitization preview and
  collision-safe label protection.
- Overlays can be filtered to a frequency range with cached
  results and dedicated range spin boxes; per-overlay autoscale
  is available alongside an overlay-aware autoscale on the FTMW
  plot.
- Overlays persist asynchronously to disk under the experiment
  directory, integrated with the experiment lifecycle so
  reopening an experiment (in the main application or in the
  viewer) restores its overlays. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/data_storage`.
- Disk-loaded catalog overlays force a stick-plot rendering with
  convolution disabled to keep prior-experiment views faithful.
- Starting a new experiment can copy overlays forward from the
  previous experiment.

User interface
--------------

- Added the curve-appearance management system: per-curve type,
  alpha-channel color selection, autoscale attribute, copy/paste,
  and a preset manager with nine default presets. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/plot_controls`.
- Added the ``ScientificSpinBox`` widget with precision-aware
  display and adaptive stepping. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/ui_overview`.
- Added the LIF delay-point randomization option. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/lif/experiment_setup`.
- Added a new transparent Blackchirp logo.
- Added an LIF display refresh timer for smoother trace updates.
  See :doc:`/user_guide/lif/lif_tab`.

Tooling
-------

- Added ``blackchirp-viewer``, a standalone read-only
  application for inspecting completed experiments. The viewer
  shares the main codebase, has no hardware or acquisition
  dependencies, and supports the FTMW, LIF, Tracking, and Log
  tabs along with overlays. See :doc:`/user_guide/viewer`.

File formats and data storage
-----------------------------

- The FT header stored alongside FTMW experiments was extended.
  See :doc:`/user_guide/data_storage`.
- FTMW configuration is reset when the displayed experiment
  changes, so stale FT settings do not carry across files. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.

Bug fixes
---------

**Overlays.**

- Fixed crashes when starting a new experiment with an overlay
  open (:commit:`2471b75e`).
- Fixed a segmentation fault in ``FtmwViewWidget`` destruction
  (:commit:`e455e08d`).
- Fixed overlay label sanitization so comma-bearing labels no
  longer break the per-experiment CSV (:commit:`3608d2a2`).
- Fixed validation and UI-interaction defects in the GenericXY
  overlay path (:commit:`444b43d9`, :commit:`8703c7f7`).
- Fixed path validation during overlay-widget initialization
  (:commit:`3b856af3`).
- Fixed batch-paste and clipboard-contamination defects in the
  Overlay Manager (:commit:`06a7686a`).
- Fixed curve-appearance initialization timing in the overlay
  settings dialog (:commit:`81133fc7`).
- Fixed a validation bypass that allowed duplicate overlay
  labels (:commit:`653c8708`).
- Fixed overlay appearance propagation by removing automatic
  preset application (:commit:`357187c7`).
- Fixed inconsistencies in overlay creation, removal, and
  persistence (:commit:`0feac4cc`, :commit:`b50820ce`,
  :commit:`56996a05`).
- Fixed XIAM parser fixed-column parsing, including ``ints=2``
  mode, and group inheritance (:commit:`ada63d26`,
  :commit:`7ad95172`).

**Acquisition.**

- Fixed a UI lock when aborting a sequence experiment
  (:commit:`641e4f95`).
- Fixed a thread-safety issue in ``FtWorker`` cleanup that
  could surface as a ``QObject::startTimer`` warning
  (:commit:`0d4d63c9`, :commit:`c0fd5395`).

**Hardware.**

- Fixed a bug in the MKS 946 driver when enabling PID mode and
  added several follow-up MKS 946 fixes (:commit:`8f37803b`,
  :commit:`eec074ae`).
- Fixed the QC9214 sync-channel bug (:commit:`7183bd12`).
- Fixed a typo in the Sirah hardware code (:commit:`06344407`).
- Fixed a minor Rigol DS2302A scope issue (:commit:`6f5d4fa1`).

**LIF.**

- Bundled LIF storage, trace-display, and spectrogram-plot fixes
  along with M4i-2211-x8 fixes (:commit:`65385b9d`).
- Fixed the LIF trace display on the LIF control widget
  (:commit:`5e2eeccc`).

**Python module.**

- Bumped the companion ``blackchirp`` Python module and fixed
  reordered FID processing in the analysis path
  (:commit:`a3f017af`, :commit:`5309e7eb`).
