.. index::
   single: 2.0.0; release notes
   single: release notes; 2.0.0

Blackchirp 2.0.0
================

Blackchirp 2.0.0 is a major release that replaces the qmake build with
CMake and ships official binary packages, replaces compile-time
hardware selection with a runtime configuration model, introduces
Python hardware drivers as a first-class implementation type, rebuilds
the acquisition pipeline around a lock-free ring buffer, and overhauls
logging, configuration, and the on-disk hardware identifier scheme.
A v1.x user upgrading to 2.0 should also read the
:doc:`migration guide </migration/v1_to_v2>`, which walks through the
upgrade actions for each user-visible change below.

Highlights
----------

- Replaced the qmake build with CMake and added official binary
  packages for Linux, Windows, and macOS, so most users no longer
  need to build from source. See :doc:`/user_guide/installation`.
- Replaced compile-time hardware selection with a runtime
  configuration model: a single binary supports any combination
  of compatible hardware, organized into profiles, loadouts, and
  FTMW presets selectable from the Hardware menu. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config`.
- Added Python hardware drivers as a first-class implementation
  type alongside the C++ drivers, with hot reload, custom
  protocol support, and per-type capability declarations. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/python_hardware`.
- Rebuilt the FTMW acquisition pipeline around a single-producer
  single-consumer ring buffer with parallel batched parse and
  accumulate, raising sustained shot rates and reducing dropped
  frames under load. See :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Consolidated logging through a thread-safe ``LogHandler`` and
  replaced ``qDebug()`` everywhere with the ``bcLog`` / ``bcWarn``
  / ``bcError`` / ``bcDebug`` and ``hwLog`` / ``hwWarn`` /
  ``hwError`` / ``hwDebug`` free-function families; a runtime
  debug-logging toggle in the new Application Configuration
  dialog writes a ``debug_YYYYMM.csv`` file when enabled. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/log_tab` and :doc:`/user_guide/application_config`.
- Added an in-process crash handler that captures POSIX signals
  (Linux, macOS) and Windows unhandled exceptions to a diagnostic
  report under ``<savePath>/log/crashes/``, with a startup
  notification when an earlier run crashed. Release builds keep
  debug info so the captured frames resolve to source lines via
  ``addr2line`` / ``atos`` / WinDbg. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/crash_reports`.
- Overhauled the documentation: refreshed the
  :doc:`User Guide </user_guide/installation>` end to end against the 2.0
  feature set, added the new :doc:`Developer Guide </developer_guide>`
  for contributors, and substantially expanded the
  :doc:`C++ API reference </classes>` to cover the hardware,
  experiment, persistence, and orchestration classes.
- Refreshed the companion ``blackchirp`` Python package against
  the v2 on-disk schema, added LIF read and processing support
  (``BCLIF``, ``BCLifTrace``), extended ``BCFTMW`` with a
  differential-FID API and configurable axis units, hardened the
  reader against schema drift across v1 and v2 fixtures, and
  restructured the Sphinx pages into a per-class layout. Tagged
  on PyPI as ``0.1.0rc1``. See :doc:`/python`.

Build and distribution
----------------------

- Replaced the qmake build with CMake. ``config.pri`` is no
  longer used; build options are configured through CMake cache
  variables. See :doc:`/user_guide/installation`.
- Added official binary packages for Linux, Windows, and macOS,
  with bundled Qt redistributables on Windows and macOS. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/installation`.
- Added cross-platform CPack packaging assets and a GitHub
  Actions release workflow that produces release artifacts for
  every supported platform.
- Added a user-configurable hardware-selection system at
  configure time (``BC_ALLHARDWARE`` and per-driver toggles) so
  packagers can produce restricted builds when needed. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/installation`.
- Declared Eigen3 as an explicit CMake dependency.
- Added a CMake documentation build (Sphinx + Doxygen) with
  dual-Doxyfile support for ReadTheDocs.
- Replaced the static ``virtualdata.qrc`` resource with a
  dynamic FID simulation generator, so the Virtual digitizer
  produces synthetic data without bundling sample CSVs. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/first_run`.

Hardware configuration
----------------------

- Added the runtime hardware configuration model with profiles,
  loadouts, and FTMW presets. Hardware is enabled and configured
  from the *Runtime Hardware Configuration* dialog without
  recompilation. See :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config/profiles`,
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config/loadouts`, and
  :doc:`/user_guide/ftmw_configuration/presets`.
- Added a first-run hardware onboarding flow that walks a new
  user through profile creation. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/first_run`.
- Added the Hardware Loadouts submenu and a loadout selector in
  the runtime hardware configuration dialog. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_menu`.
- Added the FTMW preset bar with full create, copy, save-as, and
  delete operations. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/ftmw_configuration/presets`.
- Added the consolidated *FTMW Configuration* menu entry and
  ``FtmwConfigDialog``, replacing the v1.x scattered FTMW pages.
  See :doc:`/user_guide/ftmw_configuration`.
- Added the unified Application Configuration dialog (font, save
  path, runtime LIF toggle, debug-logging toggle), replacing the
  per-setting menu entries from v1.x. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/application_config`.
- Added a ``VendorLibrary`` staging system and a Library
  Configuration interface for managing externally-supplied
  drivers, with platform-specific installation guidance. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config/library_status` and
  :doc:`/user_guide/installation`.
- Added the hardware settings registry: per-device settings are
  declared once and rendered into the per-device dialog by the
  ``HwSettingsWidget`` with priority-grouped layout. All hardware
  classes (flow controllers, pressure controllers, temperature
  controllers, IO boards, GPIB controllers, LIF lasers and
  digitizers, FTMW digitizers, clocks, chirp sources, and pulse
  generators) were migrated onto the registry. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hwdialog`.
- Added per-object hardware threading configuration to the
  hardware profile. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config/profiles`.
- Added a "Direct Control" hardware concept for hardware
  operated outside an experiment. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config`.

Hardware drivers
----------------

- Added Python hardware drivers backed by a ``QProcess`` /
  JSON-IPC bridge, with hot reload from the per-device dialog
  and per-type trampolines for AWGs, flow controllers, IO
  boards, clocks, pressure controllers, temperature controllers,
  FTMW digitizers, LIF digitizers, pulse generators, GPIB controllers,
  and LIF lasers. See :doc:`/user_guide/python_hardware`.
- Python drivers expose RS232, TCP, GPIB, and Custom protocols.
  See
  :doc:`/user_guide/python_hardware/per_type_capabilities`.
- The Python hardware combo box prepopulates from class names
  scanned out of available scripts. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/python_hardware/selecting`.
- Added runtime communication-protocol selection per hardware
  object via the per-device dialog, with protocol-specific
  widgets backed by group-based settings storage. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hwdialog`.
- Communication read defaults are 200 ms timeout and ``\n``
  termination character, surfaced in the Communication Settings
  dialog as the single source of truth. Hardware drivers no longer
  seed these values from their constructors; the dialog is the only
  place where they are configured. The on-disk layout for these
  keys also changed: v1.x stored ``timeout`` and ``termChar`` at the
  top of each hardware group, while 2.0 stores them under a
  per-protocol sub-group (``rs232``, ``tcp``, ``gpib``, ``custom``,
  ``virtual``) so a single device can carry different communication
  parameters for each protocol it supports. See
  :ref:`hardware-menu-communication`; users migrating from v1.x can
  recover their previous values from the
  :ref:`v1.x settings file <v1tov2-comm-defaults>`.
- Modernized the GPIB controller architecture so multiple GPIB
  controllers (mixed LAN and RS232) cohabitate in one
  installation. See :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_details`.
- Added Test Connection and Communication Settings shortcuts to
  the per-device dialog. See :doc:`/user_guide/hwdialog`.
- Replaced the four fixed AWG protection/gate spinboxes with a
  generalized marker system: arbitrary ``MarkerChannel`` /
  ``MarkerRole`` definitions are entered through a marker table
  on the chirp configuration tab. See
  :ref:`chirp-setup-markers` on the
  :doc:`chirp setup </user_guide/ftmw_configuration/chirp_setup>` page.
- Added the LabJack vendor-library wrapper with platform-
  specific backends (Linux/macOS exodriver, Windows UD), so
  LabJack support no longer requires the exodriver at compile
  time. See :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config/library_status` and
  :doc:`/user_guide/installation`.
- Added the Spectrum vendor-library wrapper with dynamic loading
  for both Spectrum digitizer families. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_config/library_status`.

Acquisition and data flow
-------------------------

- Replaced the per-shot Qt signal waveform path with a
  single-producer single-consumer ring buffer
  (``WaveformBuffer``) and a worker-thread parse/accumulate
  stage. See :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Added backpressure-triggered pre-accumulation in
  ``FtmwDigitizer`` so the worker thread keeps up under bursty
  load. See :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Added parallel batched parse and accumulate in
  ``AcquisitionManager``. See :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Consolidated the FTMW experiment-setup pages into
  ``FtmwConfigWidget``. See :doc:`/user_guide/experiment_setup`.
- Extracted the LO scan and DR scan controls into reusable
  widgets and incorporated them into the experiment-wizard
  Type page. See :doc:`/user_guide/experiment/acquisition_types`.
- The number-of-chirps spinbox is now enabled unconditionally;
  a warning is emitted when the active digitizer does not
  support multi-record acquisition. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/ftmw_configuration/digitizer_setup`.

User interface
--------------

- Added a Help menu with About dialog, library information, and
  links to online resources. See :doc:`/user_guide/ui_overview`.
- Added the FTMW preset submenu under the Hardware menu. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_menu`.
- Reworked the experiment-info panel and wired ``HwStatusBox``
  configure actions so each status box opens the device dialog
  directly. See :doc:`/user_guide/ui_overview`.
- Polished the left-side status panel layout and shortened
  hardware status box titles. See :doc:`/user_guide/ui_overview`.
- Added a Fixed step mode and full-precision handling to the
  ``ScientificSpinBox``. See :doc:`/user_guide/ui_overview`.
- Added a Save-As workflow on the FTMW preset bar that copies
  the current configuration into a new preset, with
  drift-detection on Save. See :doc:`/user_guide/hardware_menu`.
- Updated the Peak Find Widget icon. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Added an Appearance button to the Peak Find toolbar that opens
  the FT peak-marker styling editor directly, without hunting for
  the curve in the main-plot right-click menu. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Added a Peak Find display filter: a toggleable 2x2 grid filters the
  peak table by frequency and intensity range, plus a separate
  "In view" toggle that limits the table to peaks within the main FT
  plot's visible range. These filters affect only the displayed
  table, not the search bounds or the peaks drawn on the plot. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Added peak navigation to the Peak Find panel: double-click a row
  to center the main FT plot on that peak, or use the row's
  "Center on" context menu to frame any FT plot. With the table
  focused, Enter re-centers the current peak, Up/Down step through
  the visible rows, and Left/Right step to the next lower/higher
  frequency peak across the full peak list (regardless of filtering
  or sort order), centering the main plot on each. The frequency
  window half-width is configurable in the Peak Finding Options
  dialog. See :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- The Peak Find search parameters (frequency range, SNR, window
  size, polynomial order, and navigation half-width) are now
  remembered per experiment, stored in a ``peakfind.csv`` file and
  falling back to the application-wide defaults when none has been
  saved, mirroring the FID processing-settings behavior. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/cp-ftmw`.
- Added a selectable column delimiter for curve XY exports: a
  drop-down beside the right-click ``Export XY`` action chooses
  semicolon, comma, tab, or aligned whitespace. The choice is
  persisted application-wide and shared between Blackchirp and the
  viewer. See :doc:`/user_guide/plot_controls`.
- Relaxed the experiment-setup dialog minimum size. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/experiment_setup`.
- Streamlined the overlay creation and configuration dialog:
  flattened the nested group boxes into aligned settings tables and
  moved the validity and progress indicators into the dialog button
  bar. See :doc:`/user_guide/overlays`.

Logging and diagnostics
-----------------------

- Redesigned ``LogHandler`` as a thread-safe global singleton
  with a ``QAnyStringView`` API. See :doc:`/user_guide/log_tab`.
- Added ``bcLog`` / ``bcWarn`` / ``bcError`` / ``bcDebug`` and
  ``hwLog`` / ``hwWarn`` / ``hwError`` / ``hwDebug`` free
  functions and migrated every call site in the source tree
  off ``logMessage`` signals and ``qDebug()``. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/log_tab`.
- Added a runtime debug-logging toggle in the Application
  Configuration dialog; when enabled, debug-level output is
  written to a ``debug_YYYYMM.csv`` file alongside the
  standard log. See :doc:`/user_guide/application_config`.
- Successful connection-test events are highlighted in the Log
  tab so they stand out from informational chatter. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/log_tab`.
- Added an in-process crash handler. POSIX installs ``sigaction``
  handlers (SIGSEGV/SIGABRT/SIGFPE/SIGILL/SIGBUS) on a
  ``sigaltstack`` and writes a text crash log via raw ``write(2)``
  with frames resolved through ``dladdr`` to ``module(+0xoffset)
  [0xpc]`` lines. Windows installs ``SetUnhandledExceptionFilter``
  plus the C-runtime auxiliaries and emits a minidump
  (``MiniDumpWriteDump``) alongside a matching text sidecar so
  triage tooling sees the same header on both platforms. Crash
  artifacts land under ``<savePath>/log/crashes/`` and carry the
  build identity (git SHA) so they can be resolved against an
  unstripped binary. See :doc:`/user_guide/crash_reports` and
  :doc:`/developer_guide/crash_handling` (:commit:`68449b0b`).
- Added a startup notification dialog when prior crash reports
  are present. The most recent acknowledged timestamp is
  persisted under the dialog's settings group, so a dismissed
  report does not re-prompt unless a still-newer crash arrives.
  See :doc:`/user_guide/crash_reports` (:commit:`68449b0b`).
- Release builds now keep debug info (``-g`` / ``/Zi``) so the
  crash-handler stacktraces resolve against the unstripped
  binary. Stripping continues to happen at install time in
  ``cmake/Packaging.cmake`` (:commit:`68449b0b`).

File formats and data storage
-----------------------------

- Introduced QSettings versioning: each major version stores
  its configuration under its own QSettings namespace
  (``Blackchirp2``, ``Blackchirp3``, …), so v1.x and v2.x do
  not share state. See :doc:`/user_guide/application_config`.
- Migrated to label-based hardware identification across
  configurations and on-disk storage. Implementation key
  strings became labels keyed off the runtime hardware
  configuration. See :doc:`/user_guide/data_storage`.
- Added a ``markers.csv`` file written under each experiment
  directory recording the active marker channel definitions
  for the run. See :doc:`/user_guide/data_storage`.
- Added the ``RfConfigSnapshot`` helper for serializing the
  full RF configuration with each experiment. See
  :doc:`/user_guide/ftmw_configuration/rf_configuration`.

Python companion module
-----------------------

- Hardened ``BCFTMW`` and ``BCFid`` against schema drift across
  the v1 and v2 on-disk formats: window-function dispatch is
  driven by an explicit name → ``scipy.signal`` map, sideband
  selection accepts both numeric and string forms, ``FtUnits``
  accepts both numeric and ``FtV`` / ``FtmV`` / ``FtuV`` /
  ``FtnV`` forms, and a single helper centralizes the dual-form
  parse used by every enum-bearing field. Unknown enum values
  raise ``ValueError`` rather than falling through to a silent
  default. See :doc:`/python/bcfid` and :doc:`/python/bcftmw`
  (:commit:`10bd9d08`).
- ``BCExperiment`` reads ``markers.csv`` when present and exposes
  the active marker channel definitions as a ``markers``
  DataFrame attribute. The ``hardware.csv`` reader accepts both
  the legacy ``subKey`` and the current ``driver`` second-column
  headers, and tolerates the historical ``hardwareType`` column
  being numeric, string, or absent — so v1 fixtures continue to
  load alongside v2 captures. See :doc:`/python/bcexperiment`
  (:commit:`10bd9d08`).
- Added a differential-FID API on ``BCFTMW``:
  ``is_multi_segment``, ``num_backups``, and
  ``get_differential_fid(start, end)`` produce a ``BCFid`` whose
  data and shot count reflect the cumulative FID between two
  backup points in ``fidparams.csv``, with ``vmult`` scaling
  recomputed from the bounding entries. See
  :doc:`/python/bcftmw` (:commit:`10bd9d08`).
- Added optional axis-unit selection on ``BCFid.x``,
  ``BCFid.xy``, ``BCFid.ft``, and ``BCFTMW.process_sideband``.
  Time axes accept ``s`` / ``ms`` / ``us`` / ``μs`` / ``ns`` and
  frequency axes accept ``Hz`` / ``kHz`` / ``MHz`` / ``GHz`` /
  ``THz``; intensities and the user-facing μs/MHz gate keyword
  arguments are unchanged. See :doc:`/python/bcfid`
  (:commit:`9285f0f8`).
- Added ``BCLIF`` and ``BCLifTrace`` for LIF read and processing,
  mirroring the C++ ``LifTrace`` semantics. ``BCLifTrace``
  exposes per-trace ``smooth`` (IIR low-pass plus
  Savitzky–Golay) and ``integrate`` (sample-space trapezoidal
  sum, with reference-channel ratio when a reference is
  present); ``BCLIF`` provides ``delay_axis`` / ``laser_axis``,
  ``delay_slice`` / ``laser_slice``, and ``image`` aggregating
  helpers with configurable ``fill=np.nan|0.0`` for missing scan
  points. See :doc:`/python/bclif` and :doc:`/python/bcliftrace`
  (:commit:`dc7e7640`).
- Restructured the Sphinx documentation into per-class pages
  matching the C++ API reference layout, refreshed
  ``single-fid.ipynb`` against the v2 schema, and added a fully
  executed ``single-lif.ipynb`` covering trace loading,
  smoothing, integration, slice extraction, and 2-D image
  rendering. See :doc:`/python` (:commit:`7cb8ab84`).
- Added multi-experiment FID coaveraging via the new
  ``coaverage_fids`` and ``coaverage_spectra`` module-level
  functions. ``coaverage_fids`` produces a :class:`BCFid` whose
  raw integer data is the sample-by-sample sum of the inputs and
  whose shot count is the sum of input shot counts, with optional
  cross-correlation phase correction against a chosen reference
  window. ``coaverage_spectra`` returns a shot-weighted
  magnitude-spectrum coaverage. Both refuse on any mismatch in
  ``spacing``, ``size``, ``sideband``, ``probefreq``, ``vmult``,
  or frame count. See :doc:`/python/bcfid`.
- Tagged the package as ``0.1.0rc1`` on PyPI. ``pip install
  blackchirp`` continues to resolve to the prior stable release;
  testers opt in with ``pip install --pre blackchirp`` or
  ``pip install blackchirp==0.1.0rc1`` (:commit:`4a9b69d0`).

Bug fixes
---------

**Hardware.**

- Fixed inverted marker bit-packing on the AWG70002A and
  AWG7122B (:commit:`ba07d008`).
- Fixed common-LO clock persistence and clock-frequency signal
  chaining (:commit:`836b7750`).
- Fixed the *Apply Clock Settings* button so clock changes can
  be pushed without closing the dialog (:commit:`cd07dd5f`).
- Fixed aux-data registration key mismatches in the flow
  controller and temperature controller paths and corrected the
  resulting plot labels (:commit:`79dfe7e8`,
  :commit:`8e67bebb`, :commit:`8458aad9`).
- Fixed flow-controller channel display and the underlying
  destructor; refined the gas-flow display layout
  (:commit:`e53d7f90`, :commit:`eb8d7fbc`, :commit:`6783af97`).
- Fixed the flow-controller poll loop and the Python template-
  copy workflow (:commit:`63fee23d`).
- Fixed Python hardware experiment aux-data emission and host-
  script deployment (:commit:`dfb57021`).
- Fixed threaded hardware destructors not running on shutdown:
  ``~HardwareManager`` joined each worker thread but never deleted
  the moved-to-thread object, so settings persisted by
  ``~SettingsStorage::save()`` (such as flow-controller channel
  names on ``PythonFlowController``) were silently dropped on exit
  (:commit:`e0acf07d`).
- Fixed a destruction race during application close when a Python
  hardware driver was actively polling: ``PythonProcess::sendRequest``
  ran a nested ``QEventLoop`` on the hardware thread to service relay
  requests, and shutdown could destroy the driver while that loop was
  in flight, so the post-loop ``isRunning()`` check dereferenced a
  dangling pointer and the process segfaulted out of the
  ``FlowController`` poll path. Quiesce poll timers via a new
  ``HardwareObject::prepareForShutdown()`` virtual invoked before
  worker-thread teardown, with a ``QPointer`` guard around the
  nested loop for the residual case (:commit:`70fdc9ad`).
- Fixed the flow-controller poll interval not refreshing when the
  user changed it in the Hardware Settings dialog: the
  ``PythonFlowController`` trampoline overrode ``readSettings``
  without chaining to ``FlowController::readSettings``, so the
  base-class timer reload was silently bypassed. Restructured the
  contract as a non-virtual interface — ``HardwareObject`` exposes
  ``hwReadSettings`` as the sole entry point, each intermediate
  hardware base ``final``-overrides it and dispatches to a per-base
  hook (``fcReadSettings``, ``pcReadSettings``, ``tcReadSettings``,
  ``pgReadSettings``, ``awgReadSettings``, ``clockReadSettings``,
  ``ftmwReadSettings``, ``gpibReadSettings``, ``ioReadSettings``,
  ``lifLaserReadSettings``, ``lifDigitizerReadSettings``) — so a
  derived driver that forgets to chain becomes a compile error
  rather than a silent runtime omission (:commit:`d512ee5e`).

**Hardware configuration.**

- Fixed loadout persistence and timestamp handling on save
  (:commit:`1c9586b2`, :commit:`f8e83611`).
- Fixed the ``SettingsStorage`` nested-group wipe that affected
  FTMW preset CRUD (:commit:`3d73f08d`).
- Fixed several runtime-hardware-config defects: protocol
  registry initialization, vtable crashes during hardware
  destruction, and a deadlock in the configuration dialog
  (:commit:`68e49ab2`).
- Fixed multiple Runtime Hardware Configuration Dialog defects
  (:commit:`7a299892`, :commit:`aced0817`, :commit:`ed915a93`,
  :commit:`d66aa076`).
- Fixed ``BC_ALLHARDWARE`` build errors and the LIF logic under
  ``BC_ALLHARDWARE`` (:commit:`0bfe75c0`, :commit:`fe7b5f0a`).
- Fixed GPIB protocol configuration and connection testing
  (:commit:`cfd85d62`).
- Fixed Communication Settings dialog and clock-manager
  initialization (:commit:`19f60cf6`, :commit:`d733af0d`).
- Fixed vendor-library search priority and the library browse
  dialog (:commit:`1c4f6604`).
- Fixed ``QVariant`` enum serialization and duplicate error
  messages when switching protocols (:commit:`f7e3d6f7`).
- Fixed optional-hardware configuration init and wizard page
  population (:commit:`be8a82e2`).

**Acquisition.**

- Fixed chirp recalculation and RF-config loss in the
  experiment wizard (:commit:`1483a2d7`).
- Fixed a minor ``FtmwViewWidget`` rendering glitch under heavy
  processing load (:commit:`637d6d4e`).
- Fixed a long-standing crash on LIF-only experiments when the
  backup interval was set to a non-zero value: the backup
  scheduler dereferenced the unallocated FTMW configuration.
  LIF data is segment-flushed at acquisition time, so backup
  is now skipped for non-FTMW experiments
  (:commit:`f335b11d`).

**Tooling.**

- Fixed an intermittent crash on closing
  ``blackchirp-viewer`` (:commit:`446a5c0a`).
- Made ``ZoomPanPlot`` curve attach and detach thread-safe via
  a curve registry, eliminating a class of races that surfaced
  in both the main application and the viewer
  (:commit:`af4aab85`).
- Fixed additional ``ZoomPanPlot`` defects surfaced during the
  API-reference work (:commit:`feb21753`).

**User interface.**

- Fixed ``ScientificSpinBox`` not displaying an initial value
  of ``0.0`` (:commit:`00b0608d`).
- Fixed overlays and aux data never persisting for experiments
  opened by path: the disk-loading ``Experiment`` constructor
  passed the placeholder number rather than the header-resolved
  one to its sub-storages, and ``OverlayStorage`` gates all disk
  writes on a valid experiment number (:commit:`5a595db8`).
- Fixed catalog overlays always rendering as a step plot and
  overwriting the saved curve style on every load. The stick-plot
  style is now a creation-time default, so switching a convolved
  catalog to a line plot survives reloads (:commit:`1f473d60`).
- Fixed the overlay Configure dialog silently erasing an existing
  comment because the comment field was never populated from the
  overlay before the dialog wrote it back (:commit:`286fe2fe`).
- Fixed a stray duplicate checkbox appearing in the overlay table
  when toggling visibility: the paint-based delegate also created
  a real checkbox editor (:commit:`175e66b3`).
- Fixed a "pure virtual method called" crash when removing an
  overlay while a plot filter pass was in flight; the curve is
  now drained and unregistered before destruction
  (:commit:`b82736e6`).
- Fixed the Peak Find Remove control doing nothing: the button's
  clicked signal was never connected, so selected peaks could not
  be removed from the list (:commit:`004c523b`).
- Fixed a use-after-free when a Peak Find pass outlived its widget.
  The background search discarded its future, so reloading the
  experiment or tearing down the dock mid-search could free members
  still in use; the pass is now drained before destruction
  (:commit:`9428b017`).
- Fixed Peak List Export dialog defects: the dipole spin box
  ignored its enabled setting on load, persisted fractional
  intensity thresholds were truncated to integers, cancelling the
  save-file dialog raised a spurious export-failure box, and edits
  to the shots/intensity table were discarded unless the FTB
  format was exported (:commit:`f15eb918`).
- Fixed the catalog overlay creation dialog leaving the
  frequency-range filtering controls disabled even after a valid
  catalog file was selected; they were only editable when
  reconfiguring an existing overlay (:commit:`3341b0ad`).
- Fixed the Generic XY overlay dialog locking the delimiter,
  header-line, column-mapping, and filtering controls until the
  file already parsed, so a file that needed manual settings to
  parse could never be coaxed into parsing. Source-file validity
  is now existence-based; parse correctness still gates overlay
  creation (:commit:`3341b0ad`).
- Fixed the Generic XY overlay reporting an opaque
  parser-availability or parse failure. The selected file is
  always handed to the Generic XY parser, and the failure message
  states the cause, such as a file containing only one column
  (:commit:`3341b0ad`).

**Python companion module.**

- Made :meth:`BCFid.ft <blackchirp.BCFid.ft>` idempotent across
  all processing options. The windowed slice taken from
  ``self.data`` was a numpy view, so the in-place
  ``FidRemoveDC`` subtraction and the per-frame exp-decay
  multiplication mutated ``self.data`` and a second ``ft`` call
  on the same FID produced different output
  (:commit:`6fed7a0e`).
